1
We are seeking a dynamic Chief Procurement Officer to oversee the sourcing, purchasing, and strategic acquisition of goods and services. The role includes leading procurement operations, managing vendor relationships, ensuring compliance with organizational policies, and providing training to internal teams. This is a strategic role requiring expertise in government procurement practices within the UAE.

 Must Have Skills (Mandatory):

 Prior work experience in the UAE Government sector.
 Arabic-speaking nationality with excellent command of English (written and spoken).
 Strong knowledge of procurement laws, vendor management, and compliance in the UAE.
 Hands-on experience in sourcing, purchasing, and contract negotiation.
 Ability to lead procurement strategy and train teams effectively.
 Immediate availability to join.


 Good-to-have Skills (Optional):

 Exposure to e-procurement systems and digital procurement platforms.
 Strong stakeholder management and leadership skills.
 Experience in managing procurement transformation or cost optimization initiatives.
----------------------
2
Leading team of 60+ members handling castings, forging, machining, drives (Motors, turbines etc), Seal, system, Instruments, UCP, VFD, LOS , fabrication and other engineered components
Monitoring of releasing on time PO / LOA to suppliers
Ensuring receipt of desired documents in time for further submission to customer
Monitoring progress of documents approval and escalation at right time to be ON TIME
Work very closely with cross functional team (PM, Operations, PPC, QC, Finance etc) to achieve desire results

To succeed in this role, you will need: 

Work experience: 20+ Years 
Having experience in oil & gas API pumps industries would be a added advantage. 
Having equal good experience in Non API market like power, chemical and boiler feed related application
Must be able to work well in high pressure, fast-paced environment.
Must possess a strong customer service orientation and provide dedicated support of internal customer requirements. SAP ERP experience would be desired

----------------
3
Develop and implement procurement strategies for all goods and services required by the company.
 Develop and Manage relations with suppliers, including negotiating contracts and agreements with suppliers to ensure the best possible price, payment, and delivery terms.
 Collaborate with other departments, including Engineering, Project Management, Production, Finance, and other departments to ensure that procurement activities are aligned with project timelines.
 Develop and maintain procurement policies and procedures to ensure that all procurement activities are conducted in accordance with best practices, Group policies, and applicable laws and regulations.
 Analyze market trends and supply chain data to identify opportunities to improve procurement processes, reduce costs and increase efficiency.
 Oversee the procurement team, including hiring, training, mentoring, and performance management.
 Manage the procurement budget and ensure that all procurement activities are conducted within budgetary constraints.
 Stay up-to-date with industry trends and best practices related to procurement, renewable energy, and sustainability.
 Able to buy any material & service through quotation, online bidding, and tenders process.
 Align with BD, Engineering, Operations, Finance, and Quality for estimation support for new upcoming projects.
 Finalization of contracts for Turnkey scope of commons infrastructure i.e., PSS, TL, TB, SMS.
 Finalization of O&M Contracts for Solar Farms. Vendor selection for capital equipment like Transformers, Panels, SCADA, Automation, Assessment of new vendors/technology for upcoming industry challenges and upcoming changes in industry norms.
 Monitoring of vendors/contractors/operation agencies for our project/plant-specific performance.
 Inventory management of spare and critical items/equipment for effective operations of Solar plants.
 Identification of improvement opportunities to optimize the process, reduce cost/delivery time, and in time respond to internal and external stakeholders.
 Internal HSE auditing and implementation of HSE compliance. Able to drive process improvements and compliance within the department.
 Aware of all the process of logistics involved in importing (Sea, Air, and courier).
 Managing records as per ISO.
 Experience in handling a team of 10 or more people.
Candidate should be aware of -
Solar Modules, String/Central Inverters, Power Transformers, Inverter Duty/Auxiliary Transformers,
Compact Sub Station (CSS), NIFPS, HT Panels (Switch Gear), Module Mounting Structures (MMS),
AC/DC Cables, Module Cleaning System (Robotic Cleaner), Weather Monitoring System, Testing
Instruments, Solar Street Light, BOS Items (LT Panels/ACDB, Safety Life Line, SCADA, CCTV Camera,
Fire Protection System, Earthing kits & Lightening protection system, DWC/Flexible Pipes,
Glands/Lugs/Connectors etc.)
 Service Contracts- I&C Contracts for Solar Power Plant with/without BOS, Boundary Wall
(Precast/Chain Link Fencing), Bay Contracts, Monitoring Control Room (MCR), etc.
Qualification/Competencies
Educational qualifications: BE/B.Tech in Electrical/Electrical or BBA or MBA in Supply Chain Management
Experience: Minimum 15 Years
Preferred Industries: Solar /Wind
---------------------------
4
arget Oriented & Aggressive approach
 Capability of working under pressure & achieve targets based on the guidelines of the company's goals.
 Excellent Communication & Presentation Skills
 Should have good knowledge and hands-on experience with MS Excel and MS Office.
 Should have knowledge of SAP, ERP other related software.
 Ability to build strategic and long-term relationships
 Strong negotiating skills and experience in contract management.
 Experience in managing a team of procurement professionals
 Understanding of relevant laws and regulations.
 Willing to travel locally within Gujarat
 Candidates having experience in Renewable energy will be preferred
 Ability to market the brand and ensure customer satisfaction
 Knowledge of renewable energy industry trends and best practices.
--------------
5
 Strategic Sourcing & Category Ownership
Build and execute Neysa’s end-to-end procurement strategy across CapEx and OpEx.
Lead sourcing for high-priority categories: GPUs, cloud credits, servers, networking equipments, SaaS platforms, and consulting services.
Define procurement policies and build lightweight, scalable governance frameworks that balance structure with agility.
Forecast category demand in partnership with all functional teams.
Manage and mentor procurement teams, fostering a culture of innovation and continuous improvement
 Vendor & Ecosystem Management
Identify, evaluate, and engage with high-value strategic partners, global suppliers, and niche vendors.
Lead commercial negotiations, pricing discussions, and contract finalisation with a focus on TCO and flexibility.
Establish vendor scorecards and feedback loops for ongoing performance management.
Develop alternate supplier strategies to mitigate risks and ensure continuity.
 Procurement Intelligence, Digitisation & Compliance
Implement procurement automation through ERP or lightweight tools; explore AI-led platforms to drive efficiencies.
Build real-time dashboards and spend visibility systems for Finance and leadership.
Partner with Legal and Finance to ensure regulatory compliance, risk mitigation, and audit readiness.
Drive data-backed insights into sourcing decisions and identify cost-saving opportunities.
 Build-Mode Leadership
As the first procurement leader at Neysa, you’ll operate as a strategic individual contributor with the mandate to build a scalable function.
Design scalable SOPs, documentation processes, and vendor onboarding play books.
Responsible for scaling procurement operations across geographies and verticals.

------------------------
6
Manage the Procurement/Fulfillment functions within the Power Conversion Solution business which include purchase order release, acknowledgement, monitoring goods and documentation delivery, and make receipt of material in ERP.
Good knowledge on the tax implications of moving material across geography and interfacing with finance, compliance team to ensure that taxes do not become a cost to the project
Support the B2P process through ensuring invoices are payable after alignment with suppliers, internal stakeholders, and following internal processes
The global COE procurement team will cover procurement and fulfillment for PCS regions, related to managing some local and global suppliers and being organized per commodity or project buy depending on business needs.
---------------
7
o work expressly within logistics, planning and purchasing to ensure the consistency, cost-effectiveness, efficiency, and adequacy of the procurement process. 
To overseeing and facilitating the purchasing strategy, supervising teams of subordinate staff in purchasing, operations, and logistics, and ensuring all employees and processes meet the company's standards and designations for work quality. 

Strategy and Development

Overall responsibility for Purchasing and Cost Estimating activities across the business 
Prepare the annual Purchasing budget and forecasts and all Capital Expenditure proposals as well as ensuring compliance with customer and legal requirements. 
Manage the budget from identification to completion of projects Relationship 
Create and implement best practice purchasing vision, strategy, policies, processes, and procedures to aid and improve business performance Ensure that purchasing strategies and processes are in place to meet business objectives and operational needs in terms of price, quality, and delivery targets, which enables the company to function and compete effectively in the market to include - Terms and conditions, supplier selection/de-selection, evaluation and rationalization of supply chain solutions including vendor managed inventory, supplier consignments and safety stock
Evaluate the challenges faced by the business and take action to mitigate risks and develop opportunities Contribute to overall business strategy and annual budget process 
Take ownership of the purchasing policy, guidelines, and any associated documents 
Initiate and develop creative and innovative procurement processes ( eProcurement ) 

Negotiations & Vendor Management

Responsible for managing relationships and negotiating with key suppliers at a senior and strategic level 
Negotiate contract terms with key suppliers to ensure value for money, quality standards and delivery terms with technical and operational input from stakeholders if appropriate 
Craft negotiation strategies and close deals with optimal terms 
Forecast price and market trends to identify changes of balance in buyer supplier power 
Seek and partner with reliable vendors and suppliers 
Develop an overall vendor base which creates and sustains a competitive advantage utilizing market exploitation, leveraging spends and leveraging technologies 
Develop, implement, and maintain a supplier relationship and evaluation process to measure effective supplier performance and compliance
Ensure professional and consistent supplier management is applied across the supply base in line with the purchasing policy Work closely with other functions to source new and alternative raw materials 

People Management

Coach, mentor and develop direct reports and manage a high performing team that delivers continuous improvement, added value and cost reductions 
Set department objectives and monitor ongoing progress and performance 
Ensure strong communication between teams under leadership to facilitate exchange of information and to implement change and improvements Responsible for developing the appropriate organizational structure, resource plans and culture to support the business objectives and customer deliverables 
Provide leadership, coordination, and coaching to the team, ensuring they are trained enabling them to achieve the operational and financial metrics within their areas of responsibility and succeed in their roles 
Complete regular performance reviews, manage attendance, holidays, disciplinary issues, and procedures as appropriate 

Relationship Management

Develop and maintain strong relationships with internal and external stakeholders to ensure optimal performance 
Work collaboratively, negotiate and engage with key stakeholders to facilitate delivery and compliance with the purchasing strategy 
Communicate with stakeholders the impact of market change and potential effects on supply 
Recommend solutions without compromising quality or service while optimizing cost 
Contribute to new business initiatives and projects and review and communicate the impact on Purchasing activities
----------------
8
Strategy Development: Collaborate with Procurement leadership to define and execute the strategic vision of the Global Procurement Center, aligning it with the overall organizational goals.
Team Leadership: Lead, mentor, and inspire a team of subject matter experts, fostering a culture of continuous learning and development consistent with Stripe Operating and Leadership principles.
Operational Excellence: Partner with Procurement and Finance teams to develop, implement or improve processes and share best practices throughout the organization. Regularly report on process performance with key stakeholders and provide/gather service feedback.
Innovation: Drive innovation by identifying emerging trends and technologies, and lead efforts to pilot, adopt, and integrate innovative solutions into the organization.
Collaboration: Facilitate cross-functional collaboration within the team and with other departments, breaking down silos and promoting a culture of collaboration and knowledge-sharing.
Performance Metrics: Develop and monitor key performance metrics to measure the impact and effectiveness of the team's initiatives and activities, ensuring continuous improvement.
Quality Assurance: Establish quality control and assurance standards to maintain high-quality output from the team, maintaining a strong focus on excellence and compliance.
Stakeholder Engagement: Engage with internal and external stakeholders to promote the team's mission and secure buy-in from key decision-makers.

----------------
9
Develops and implements a vision and strategy for the procurement organization. Performs long term strategic planning, goal setting, benchmarking and performance measurements to optimize procurement effectiveness and value.
Develops, reviews, evaluates and enforces University-wide procurement policies and procedures. Interprets Federal, State, Board of Governors and Board of Trustees laws, statutes, rules and regulations relating to purchases for the University. Ensures adherence to contract law and maintains the highest ethical standards, managing risks associated with laws including but not limited to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Effectively communicate purchasing policies and procedures to supervised personnel and other FIU departments.
Oversees supplier onboarding, record maintenance and strategic relationship management according to best practices, including categorizing suppliers. Conducts regular supplier performance evaluations and actively engages with key suppliers to cultivate robust and reliable relationships. Addresses supply risks and ensures continuity by developing contingency plans.
Oversees market assessments, competitive solicitations, bid strategy development and supplier negotiations. Designs negotiation strategies or advises stakeholders on negotiating strategies and techniques. Negotiates contracts and leads contract development for complex service contracts and the acquisition of high dollar value purchases that support a wide variety of University needs. Enforces and monitors contractual compliance, and promotes transparency, fairness and integrity in the process of procuring, evaluating and awarding university contracts. Reviews and provides input on bid protests or contract claims, with final determinations made by University's legal counsel.
Identifies cost-saving opportunities while promoting improvements in quality, service and delivery through rigorous analysis of spend data, market dynamics, product changes and supplier performance information. Creates and presents business cases and recommendations to the CFO.
Responsible for the development, management and tracking of all university procurement and spend metrics. Delivers regular procurement reports with analysis and recommendations to the CFO. Oversees the preparation of reports to university constituents, suppliers and state and federal regulatory agencies. Responds to inquiries and concerns related to procurement policies, procedures and services.
Manages the entire procurement process, including procurement, purchasing compliance, contract management, purchasing card solutions and printing services.
Assesses procurement technology systems to minimize lead times and errors and enable easy data analysis. Continually evaluates and updates business processes for maximum efficiency within a compliant framework.
Builds collaborative relationships with campus stakeholders to understand their needs and ensure a high-quality, service-oriented procurement approach. Serves as a trusted advisor to win over hesitant departments and demonstrate how their purchasing goals can be met while minimizing legal, accreditation, financial or public relations risk. Formulates, in conjunction with using departments, short-term and long-term strategic procurement plans in order to maximize buying power and minimize inefficiencies. Encourages collaboration between the procurement team and other departments to improve decision-making and efficiency. Ensures the procurement team delivers best-in-class service by establishing service level standards, monitoring and evaluating staff performance, conducting regular staff meetings (in groups and one-on-one) to align performance and deliverables, evaluating workloads and providing regular training and upskilling for staff.
Supervise the formulation and administration of the department's annual operating budget.
Creates training programs to onboard end-user to new systems and processes. Collaborates with the Division of IT and the Division of Human Resources on systems and processes implementation, training and change management, as needed.
-----------------
10
Develop, initiate, and present procurement strategies to the Company’s Executive Management team.
Lead and mentor a team of five direct reports, clearly communicate priorities, and get involved as necessary to deliver key initiatives covering the entire supply chain.
Negotiate long-term supply agreements and short-term purchase contracts.
Strategically manage and report contract and commodity positions for major expenditures including apple juice concentrate, pear juice concentrate, orange solids, corn-based sweeteners, bottles. select resin grades and paper.
Manage contract life cycles and maintain contract review process.
Establish and drive standard costing processes along with underlying assumptions to support development of the annual budget.
Report and communicate monthly procurement KPI’s.
Project and communicate key commodity cost changes versus the annual budget and updated forecasts.
Champion and execute sourcing initiatives to support sales and marketing objectives (e.g., new product launches) as well as resiliency and efficiency objectives.
Report and communicate key developments in tariffs and propose options for mitigation.
---------------------
11
 Strategic Procurement:
Develop and execute a comprehensive global procurement strategy that aligns with the company’s growth, revenue and EBITDA objectives.
Lead cross-functional teams to drive strategic sourcing initiatives that result in cost savings, quality improvements, and risk mitigation.
Establish and maintain strong relationships with key suppliers, ensuring long-term partnerships that deliver value and innovation.
Analyze market trends and data to inform procurement strategies and anticipate changes in supply and demand.
Global Procurement
Oversee resources and procurement activities across the US, Mexico and Canada ensuring compliance with local and international regulations.
Manage the complexities of global sourcing, including currency risks, geopolitical factors, and supply chain disruptions.
Drive continuous improvement in global procurement processes, leveraging technology and best practices to optimize efficiency.
Collaborate with regional teams to ensure alignment of global procurement strategies with local business needs.
Sourcing And Supplier Management
Lead the supplier selection and qualification process, ensuring that all suppliers meet the company’s standards for quality, reliability, and sustainability.
Negotiate and manage contracts with suppliers, ensuring favorable terms and conditions that protect the company’s interests.
Monitor supplier performance and develop strategies to address any issues related to quality, delivery, or compliance.
Innovate and implement sourcing strategies that reduce costs while maintaining or improving product quality and service levels.
-----------------
12
Strategic Thinking: The ability to develop and implement long-term procurement strategies that align with the overall business goals and drive sustainable growth.
Global Supply Chain Management: Expertise in managing complex global supply chains, including understanding international regulations, market dynamics, and risk management.
Supplier Relationship Management: Proficiency in building and maintaining strong, strategic partnerships with key suppliers to ensure consistent quality, innovation, and value.
Leadership and Team Development: Strong leadership skills with the ability to inspire, mentor, and develop a high-performing procurement team, fostering a culture of collaboration and continuous improvement.
Negotiation and Contract Management: Advanced skills in negotiating favorable terms with suppliers and managing contracts to protect the company’s interests while fostering long-term relationships.
Change Management: Ability to lead and manage change within the procurement function, including the implementation of new processes, technologies, and strategies to improve efficiency and effectiveness.
Analytical and Problem-Solving Skills: Strong analytical capabilities to make data-driven decisions, solve complex problems, and identify opportunities for cost savings and process improvements.
------------------
13
Direct procurement team positions in the design, implementation and execution of sourcing and supply chain strategies to optimize value from annual spend.
Manage annual Operating Budget for the department, prioritizing activities to optimize return to the business .
Direct the review, negotiation and approval of change orders and amendments to supplier agreements pursuant to Acosta’s standard policies and procedures.
Ensures all contract change orders and amendments are clear and concise and include appropriate business commitments.
Acquisition-based vendor assessment and integration within existing vendor base.
Works with Operations to rationalize scope of services and service level standards to drive value to the operations.
Conducts make vs. buy analysis of existing business process and operations to drive the optimal value to the business.
Work with the Business Development organization to brainstorm strategies and positions to support the development of technical and financial proposals to prospective clients where there is a reliance on third party supplier(s) to deliver portions of the solution.
Ensure contract and spend compliance with preferred suppliers by conducting periodic contract reviews and audits.
External interface to the supply market.
Ensure timely and accurate communication of all contract issues and changes.
Develop action plans and risk mitigation strategies.
Identify potential commercial issues, resolves issues (or escalates) and liaise with Finance, Operations and Legal to ensure scope, schedule and financial objectives are met on Acosta client agreements
Ensure company follows applicable State, Federal and In-Country laws, pursuant to the contract obligations.
Develop, maintain, and deliver training (including to new hires) on legal policies and procedures, including but not limited to contract administration, trade secret, copyright, record retention, and other issues applicable to the specific client contract.
Work closely with the Compliance Lead to ensure both client and vendor contractual compliance obligations are met.
Develop contracts tools, templates, and procedures which enable the effective discharge of contracting practices across the Acosta supply chain.
Work with senior executives of key supplier relationships to design and implement strategies to drive continuous improvement in achieving Acosta and Mosaic’s financial and strategic business objectives.
Attend and present at functional C level staff meetings as appropriate.
----------------
14
Global Transformation – Drive and deliver a comprehensive global procurement transformation, including the implementation of a new global vendor management system, process modernization, and the development of a high-performing, adaptable team to achieve strategic objectives.
Supplier Management & Monetization – Continue efforts to build a robust global supplier network. Optimize supplier management functions, and monetize third-party spend through effective negotiations and vendor price discount strategies to enhance EBITDA.
Strategic Operating Model & Category Management – Design and implement scalable operating models and category management frameworks, ensuring governance, transparency, and dedicated ownership for key spend areas across the organization globally.
KPIs including Financial and Operational Reporting – Oversee the creation and tracking of project plans, key performance indicators, and financial and operational reports to monitor progress, enforce accountability, and provide clear status updates to executive leadershi
-----------------------------
15
Transformation Outcomes:
Successfully lead and deliver a global procurement transformation program over two years, resulting in improved technology enablement, streamlined processes, and a redefined procurement function.
Achieve full deployment and adoption of a new global procurement technology suite, with measurable increases in process efficiency, data transparency, and user engagement.
Establish a globally aligned supplier management framework, reducing fragmentation in EMEA and APAC, closing category ownership gaps, enhancing local supplier network in the US and increasing supplier performance and client value delivery.
Drive organization-wide change management initiatives, resulting in high stakeholder engagement, rapid adoption of new processes, and a culture of continuous improvement.

Strategic & Financial Outcomes
Monetize $5B+ in third-party spend, capturing additional EBITDA through vendor price discounts (VPDs) and innovative procurement strategies.
Develop an ongoing program to identify and realize new opportunities to reduce corporate spend
Reduce time to generate business unit spend analytics and increase the granularity of spend data, enabling more informed decision-making and improved financial reporting.

Talent & Organizational Outcomes
Assess and elevate procurement team capabilities, identifying top performers and strengthening overall bench strength through targeted coaching and development programs.

Stakeholder & Client Outcomes
Build strong partnerships with service line leadership, balancing local/regional needs with global frameworks and delivering measurable improvements in stakeholder satisfaction.
Enhance client value through improved procurement solutioning, pricing strategies, and risk management, resulting in increased account profitability and retention.
--------------------------------------
