1
Review expert call transcripts to detect and resolve any instances of material nonpublic and confidential information in accordance with internal protocols, applicable laws/regulations, and industry standards.
Complete due diligence review of each call, document any violations comprehensively, and escalate non-compliance with Tegus sourcing guidelines as necessary.
Conduct advanced research of financial reports and regulatory filings using internal databases and external resources to determine the extent to which information exists in the public domain.
Proactively manage internal and external communications while maintaining efficiency and adaptability in a fast-paced, time-sensitive environment.
Perform administrative tasks, including but not limited to, inputting, tracking, and maintaining accurate data on processes, transcripts, and workflows, while identifying opportunities to improve operational efficiency.
--------------
2
Review and conclude alerts generated by fraud prevention/monitoring systems
Continue to monitor current trends in Fraud landscape, suggest preventive & corrective measures
The primary responsibility is to review potential fraud alert to protect our customers from fraud while also protecting the bank’s assets.
The fraud analyst would require documenting the research conducted to support the decision taken on alert.
The associate will be expected to complete a targeted number of decisions per hour, as well as be measured on decision accuracy.
--------------------------
3
Determine fraud trends by analysing MIS, accounts and transactional patterns
Monitor real time queues and identify high risk transactions within the business portfolio to taking quick and punitive action
Identify system improvements to prevent and highlight fraudulent activities.
----------------------
4
Act as the primary liaison (POC) between RBI and OLA, ensuring timely communication and compliance with all regulatory directives.
Manage RBI inspections (annual/periodic), coordinate with internal teams, and ensure readiness.
Handle and coordinate internal and external audits related to RBI and regulatory compliance.
Prepare, validate, and file mandatory returns/data submissions to RBI and other government portals.
Implement RBI guidelines across business functions and ensure full adherence.
Build strong data management processes and maintain compliance dashboards.
Use analytics (Excel, Tableau preferred) to track compliance metrics, identify gaps, and recommend improvements.
----------------------------------
5
The job will involve a comprehensive review of Cross Border Trade Based AML alerts in the team.
This would involve review of customer profile, transaction pattern, financials, transaction documents & ancillary information obtained through public and private sources to identify potential money laundering activities.
The job will also entail taking such cases to logical closure including filing of STR with FIU.
The job holder would need to have coverage of full spectrum of AML activities from Transaction Monitoring to Investigations.
-------------------------------
6
Our Financial Crime team blends regulatory expertise with data-driven thinking to make sure our products meet legal and policy requirements and deliver real value to customers. In a fast-moving, digital environment, they stay one step ahead by finding smart, scalable ways to prevent financial crime.
We're looking for a Crypto Analyst to collaborate with the Compliance team to protect our customers’ accounts. You'll think deeper to find solutions and contribute to the way we support our customers every day.
To support our 24/7 coverage, this role may include night and weekend shifts, which are fully compensated.
---------------------------
7
Perform risk investigations and analysis.
Make timely and sound decisions at both the payment and account levels.
Draw conclusions based on multiple data sets and user behaviour.
Conduct research and provide risk insights
Communicate the review findings, make risk-related decisions, and act upon them
Work closely with other teams, groups, and departments to support the development of risk-related tools, processes, and products to improve monitoring mechanisms while maintaining operational SLAs
Handle real-time payment reviews and take ownership of urgent decisions under tight timeframes
Manage competing priorities and make high-quality decisions under pressure, ensuring minimal business impact
Proactively identify and escalate high-risk cases that require immediate action 
-----------------
8
Delivering exceptional customer service through multiple channels such as chat, email, and phone while resolving complex queries.
Collaborating with internal teams to align and improve customer care processes and provide feedback for enhancements.
Investigating and resolving customer inquiries related to bank products and services, including transactions and account issues.
Preparing and presenting reports on customer performance and insights to senior stakeholders.
Identifying industry trends and implement best practices to enhance efficiency and overall customer experience.
---------------------
9
Strong understanding of backend operations with the ability to manage and streamline internal processes.
Experience in fraud operations, including identifying suspicious patterns and preventing fraudulent activities.
Proficiency in scan detection techniques to quickly flag and investigate anomalies.
Knowledge of chargeback processing, ensuring accurate assessment, documentation, and resolution of disputes.
----------------------
10
Accurate and efficient processing of deposits into IG in accordance with international and local compliance regulations
 Processing and release of withdrawals across IG’s different payment methods such as Card, Bank and PayPal
 Regulation and enforcement of IG’s strict anti-money laundering controls, including the verification of bank statement and payment methods
 Administration of IG’s payment and banking portals to enable effective processing
 Problem-solve complex issues and errors to resolve payment queries
 Handling of daily reports, posting of bonuses/tax and audits
 Cross-departmental communication to facilitate effective handling of queries
 Participation in continuous improvement initiatives to optimise team performance.
------------------
11
Perform risk investigations and analysis 
Draw conclusions based on multiple data sets and user behavior 
Conduct research and provide data-driven analytical/risk insights 
Communicate the review findings, make risk-related decisions, and act upon them 
Work closely with other teams, groups, and departments to support the development of risk-related tools, processes, and products to improve monitoring mechanisms 
--------------
12
 Handling the team of AML Transaction Monitoring and Suspicious Transaction Reporting. Alerts review shall include review of customer profile, transaction pattern, financials, & ancillary information obtained through public and private sources to identify potential money laundering patterns.
 Drafting and/or review of Grounds of Suspicion and taking such cases to logical closure including filing of STR with FIU-IND.
 Ensuring high reporting standards to FIU India in terms of quality of STRs and identification and submission of P1 STRs as well as typology reports.
 Ensure 100% process compliance, robust internal control across the unit and product coverage through review of products/services from AML/CFT perspective at the time of implementation as well as periodic renewals.
 Good knowledge of complex customer types.
 Work closely with the product/business teams to ensure smooth day to day functioning.
 Provide inputs on processes to improve the system performance, rule optimization etc.
 Liaising with internal (branches/BCU/product teams) and external (FIU/RBI/auditors/vendors/peer banks) stakeholders for various requirements, on need basis.
-----------------
13
Collaborative and a team player, able to work well with other staff including departmental colleagues, business, operations and technology teams.
 Managing the monitoring of work assigned to the team and recommending process changes to increase efficiency.
 Sound knowledge about latest development across the globe about money laundering and terrorist financing.
 Knowledge and Understanding of Banking Regulations and Laws governing AML/KYC including FATF requirements.
 Investigate any unusual matters escalated by business or identified through triggered event
 Clear understanding of regulatory reporting requirements and interpretation of regulatory guidance
 Manage any AML relevant audits or inspections, including liaise or coordination of audit matters and drafting management responses etc.
 Any other matters assigned by the Head of Unit or line manager.
 Ability to take initiatives, working with tight timelines
 Added advantage being well versed with Merchant Acquisition Transactions/ Payment Gateway /Payment Banks transactions/I4C complaints
 Able to challenge the status quo and identify, recommend and implement process efficiencies.
 Should be a team player with strong problem-solving skills.
-----------------------
14
Identify, monitor, evaluate and address customer account actions to address potential risk, fraud or suspicious activity.
Understand and manage KYC and AML processes
Support the origination and in-life management of deposits by handling the Customer/Enhanced Due Diligence during on-boarding and in-life periodic reviews.
Process all applications through a workflow system effectively, within agreed SLAs and goals, and in compliance with company policies and procedures.
Perform due diligence checks on prospective and existing customers, such as requesting KYC information and documentation.
Conduct enhanced due diligence on high risk customers, including evaluation of client responses to sources of wealth and intended use of account.
Investigate identified suspicious clients generated by the screening system, such as WorldCheck and OFAC list.
Analyze the AML/CFT risk of Politically Exposed Persons (PEP), adverse information, business exposure in high risk & sanctioned countries and escalate the issues to the Legal Team for approval.
Follow internal policy and procedures when dealing with account related suspicious activity.
Cross reference multiple databases for potential undesirable client matches.
-----------------------
15
Respond to inbound technical support calls for the Q2 Solution
 Troubleshoot and resolve customer issues using documented tools and procedures
 Accurately log all customer interactions, categorizing cases and capturing complete problem descriptions
 Establish case priority and update customers throughout the resolution process
 Provide clear, step-by-step guidance and “how-to” assistance for product usage
 Handle a high volume of cases efficiently while maintaining quality and professionalism
 Own and manage an open case queue; prioritize escalated issues appropriately
 Escalate unresolved issues to appropriate internal teams per established guidelines
 Collaborate with development, implementation, and QA teams to resolve complex cases
 Make data or configuration changes in production environments with high attention to detail
 Test emergency product fixes or updates from the Product Development team when needed
 Follow internal change control procedures for implementing product modifications
 Ensure all activities comply with company policies regarding security, confidentiality, and availability
 Participate in rotating 24x7 on-call support coverage
 Communicate key customer concerns and trends to Operations Management
 Develop strong relationships with customers, promoting a high standard of service and professionalism
--------------------------
16
Assess and evaluate fraud risks (Customer fraud risks and Internal fraud risks)
Draft Fraud Risk Management Program. Review existing ACAB policy and recommend changes, draft new policies (if required).
Develop and implement strategies to mitigate fraud risk, including the enhancement of existing fraud prevention measures and the development of new strategies. Review existing fraud risk internal controls, draft new controls, evaluate effectiveness of internal controls
Analyse large data sets to detect anomalies and trends related to fraud, using statistical techniques and modelling to predict potential risks
Utilize data analysis and reporting tools to identify suspicious patterns, transaction and activities indicative of fraudulent behaviour.
Maintain and optimize fraud detection system and technologies, ensuring their accuracy and efficiency
Work with cross functional teams to share insights, address issues and implement fraud prevention measures
Investigate fraud incidents, document response in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Keep internal and external stakeholders informed at all stages. 

Work with insurance carriers to process claims in case of an incident
Continuously evaluate and enhance Fraud Risk Management Program
Work on tasks as may be assigned by Reporting Manager/ Senior Leadership from time to time.
---------------------
17
Supporting the KYC Advisory team in conducting customer risk reviews. This may for example include reviewing adverse media alerts, together with PEP and KYC advisory escalations from the business
Management/escalation of adverse media alerts escalated to FCOE by the first line. This will also include processing Anti-Social Element Checks for Japanese customers.
Updating procedures in line with UK regulatory and legal requirements and/or Global Policy and Standards. This may include the provision of training to the first line.
Producing management reports and data for Key Performance Indicators for governance meetings.
Responding to inbound due diligence enquiries from other banks/FIs.
Managing the AML and KYC inboxes.
Supporting technology and system development, by for example partaking in UAT testing.
-----------------------
18
Able to contribute to the overall advancement and integration of core program objectives across the global and Americas Issues Management Department.
Experience of KYC quality checking and/or assurance testing required.
Experience of performing KYC on Financial Institution and Correspondent Banking clients – (not essential).
Knowledge of KYC and the regulatory environment.
Good understanding of JMLSG and Regulatory KYC requirements
General understanding of IT systems used in the KYC area
Excellent communication skills.
Results driven, with a strong sense of accountability.
A proactive, motivated approach.
The ability to operate with urgency and prioritize work accordingly.
Strong decision-making skills, the ability to demonstrate sound judgement.
A structured and logical approach to work.
Strong problem-solving skills.
Excellent interpersonal skills.
The ability to manage large workloads and tight deadlines.
Excellent attention to detail and accuracy.
A calm approach, with the ability to perform well in a pressurized environment.
----------------------
19
review and investigate complex cases to provide supporting documentation and narratives to aid with determining if activities are unusual or out of character. 
Manage volumes of incoming cases and execute decisions under pressure of tight deadlines and regulatory time frames for TMIR. 
Compile appropriate case notes and other documentation to support review, completed steps, recommended determinations, etc.
Gather relevant and applicable on and off-platform data and objective information to support a subjective determination to support a case through its lifecycle. 
Prepare detailed reporting to support independent decisions & justification for escalations and de-escalations including extensive supporting documentation and comprehensive narratives. 
Assist in the assessment of potential risks, patterns and trends based on case review and investigations completed. 
Assist and support leadership with procedure and workflow changes that may impact multiple teams and/or regions with the support of your manager. 
Identify accurately and escalate compliance risks and opportunities to the Compliance Management. 
----------------------------
20
Partner with Relationship Management and Compliance teams to assist with the preparation, development, due diligence and approval of the electronic Know Your Client (KYC) record and supporting appendices
Create and maintain KYC records by obtaining information from internal and external sources (firm website, regulatory websites, etc.)
Partner with Relationship Management and Compliance teams to update system information from initiation to approval of KYC record and report workflow progress to supervisor
Validate the information within KYC records and Customer Identification Program (CIP) documents to ensure completion and accuracy
Ensure KYC records incorporate local regulatory requirements / Global Business Support Unit (BSU) Standards
Maintain BSU tool
Appropriately assess risk when business decisions are made, demonstrating particular consideration for the firm's reputation and safeguarding Citigroup, its clients and assets, by driving compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, adhering to Policy, applying sound ethical judgment regarding personal behavior, conduct and business practices, and escalating, managing and reporting control issues with transparency.
