Financial Operations (FinOps)


1
Prepare and distribute accurate and timely financial reports using Oracle Financials. Ensure compliance with corporate policies and regulatory requirements.
Analyze financial data to identify trends, variances, and opportunities for improvement. Provide actionable insights to management based on data analysis.
Analyze and resolve Oracle financial functional issues
Maintain and manage Oracle Financial applications, ensuring data integrity and system efficiency. Assist in troubleshooting and resolving system-related issues.
Collaborate with cross-functional teams to enhance and streamline financial reporting processes. Implement the best practices for data management and reporting.
Assist in preparing documentation and reports for audits. Ensure all reporting activities comply with internal controls and external regulations.
Work closely with accounting, finance, and IT teams to gather necessary information and ensure a cohesive approach to financial reporting.
Provide support and training to other team members on Oracle Financial applications and reporting tools.

Required Qualifications

Prepare, generate, and distribute accurate financial reports using Oracle Financials.
Ensure reports comply with corporate policies and regulatory standards.
Analyze financial data to identify trends and variances.
Provide actionable insights and recommendations to management based on data analysis.
Maintain and manage Oracle Financial applications to ensure data integrity and system efficiency.
Assist in troubleshooting and resolving any issues related to the financial reporting systems.
Collaborate with cross-functional teams to enhance and streamline financial reporting processes.
Implement best practices for data management and reporting efficiency.
Assist in preparing documentation and reports for audits.
Ensure all reporting activities adhere to internal controls and external regulatory requirements.
Work closely with accounting, finance, and IT teams to gather necessary information and ensure a cohesive approach to financial reporting.
Communicate findings and insights effectively to stakeholders.
----------------------
2
 Reporting responsibilities will include (but not limited to) Forecast and AOP publication for G&A, Cost Center, Vendor and Operating expense (Including G&A) reporting and analysis, Various Earning Related Reporting (P&L Stacks, Revenue & EPS Walk, Key Metrics, Earning Books Preparation, Revenue/Gross Margin Walk) & Investor Relation.
 Identify opportunities to automate and improve reporting capabilities and assist in solutions implementation.
 Drive projects to digitize our analytics and reporting capabilities as well as identifying and delivering finance simplification initiatives to simplify & streamline our financial reporting systems.
 Deliver impactful, accurate and on-time financial reporting.
 Collaborate with various Finance leaders to develop a standard catalogue of financial reports and key operational metrics, delivered on a continuous basis, which drive action and deliver improved financial results.
 Support ad hoc analysis as required, including requests from the Sr. Director Corporate FP&A
-------------------
3
Accounting & Financial Control

 Lead the end-to-end month-end close process for accounting options, including journal entry posting, global general ledger reconciliations, and reporting.
 Ensure accurate and timely financial reporting, with a strong emphasis on compliance and control.
 Own transition management, reporting decks, and operational reconciliations.
 Monitor and enhance process efficiency and accuracy through automation and continuous improvement.
 Benchmark practices against industry standards to ensure excellence in accounting processes.
 Ensure all accounting activities comply with internal policies, SOX, and audit requirements across geographies.
 Analyze large and complex datasets to extract business insights and support decision-making.
 Develop dashboards and metrics to monitor the health and quality of finance processes and controls.

Invent & Simplify

 Drive process improvements and innovate on behalf of internal customers by optimizing workflows and controls.
 Support ad-hoc financial analysis, variance reviews, and performance reporting.
 Maintain detailed documentation of policies, procedures, and internal controls.
 Play a leading role in strategic initiatives and special projects as assigned.

Leadership & Stakeholder Management

 Act as a key liaison between global and regional finance teams, building strong relationships with internal stakeholders.
 Anticipate needs, honor commitments, and deliver high-quality service to business partners.
 Collaborate with remote teams across multiple time zones and drive alignment on shared goals.
 Lead hiring and training efforts within the team, promoting best practices and continuous learning.
 Maintain a strong systems orientation and leverage tools to drive scalable solutions.

 Proven ability to manage complex accounting operations in a high-growth, fast-paced environment.
 Experience with financial reporting, SOX compliance, internal controls, and audit management.
 Strong analytical skills with experience handling large datasets and deriving meaningful insights.
 Passion for process excellence, innovation, and delivering high standards.
 Ability to work effectively across cross-functional teams and global geographies.
 A proactive, hands-on attitude with a strong sense of ownership and accountability.
----------------------
4
inancial strategy.
 Drive annual budgeting exercise and quarterly forecasts for Operations cost with teams
 Report actual performance for SSD and drive Monthly Finance Review (MFR) meetings and support Quarterly Business Reviews (QBR) with financial insights.
 Provide strategic advice proactively to drive Free Cash Flow (FCF) program and set-up regular mechanism for execution and reporting.
 Develop business insights and KPI dashboards, validate cost savings and lead adhoc analysis.
 Develop and implement framework for internal controls, governance, risk and compliance.
 Identify opportunities to resolve defects proactively. Improves, scales, or simplifies finance tools across teams and organizations.
-----------------
5
 Performs moderately complex financial analysis that is either transactional or analytical in nature, for specific functions or business units.
 Addresses complex business issues and provides valuable analytics to support key business initiatives.
 Conducts appropriate financial analysis to determine trends, observe relationships and develop ratios used in forecast models.
 Acquires a comprehensive understanding of the organization's financial processes and gains proficient knowledge of the company's operations and business.
 Establishes and maintains relationships with business leaders to ensure fulfillment of financial analyses objectives.
 Ensures compliance with reporting standards and corporate policies and the integrity of external and internal reporting.
 Collaborates with department heads to develop annual budgets and long-term financial plans.
 Generates regular and ad-hoc financial reports for management, executives, and other stakeholders.
 Develops conclusions, recommendations, and written reports, contributing proactively through research and data analysis support, and sharing knowledge to foster a knowledge management culture.
 Works independently on moderate scope problems, applying professional expertise, exercising judgment, and resolving various issues by following company policies and procedures.
----------------
6
P&L Ownership: Manage and analyze the P&L statement(order / revenue /cost / Margins ) , ensuring accuracy and providing insights to drive profitability and cost efficiency .
Cost Control: Implement and monitor cost control strategies to optimize financial performance and operational efficiency and suggest cost control and hishjlight cost leakages to top management
Budget and Forecasting: Participate in the development of budget forecasts, aligning with strategic goals and business objectives.
Strategic Planning: Contribute to strategic planning initiatives, providing financial insights and recommendations to support long-term growth.
KPIs Definition: Define and track key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure financial and operational success, driving continuous improvement.
Business Review Participation: Collaborate in business reviews, offering data-driven insights to support informed decision-making.
Cross-Team Collaboration: Work closely with business finance leaders, FP&A groups, and cross-functional teams to enhance financial processes and outcomes.
Financial Model Development: Build and refine financial models to evaluate business scenarios, assess operational performance, and support strategic planning.
Decision-Making Support: Provide analytical support to executive-level decision-making, ensuring alignment with financial goals and business strategies.
Continuously seek out technological enhancements to streamline data analysis and reporting functions.
Continuous Improvement and Lean Methodologies: Lead initiatives to promote continuous improvement and apply Lean methodologies to streamline processes and enhance efficiency and lead with growth mindest
--------------------------
7
Monthly, quarterly forecasting & annual budgeting
Monthly variance analysis of revenue, cost, SGA, markup
First-level analysis of data and monthly MIS report preparation
Analysis of SG&A trends and cost control initiatives
Implementation of financial models for revenue reporting
Collaboration with global commercial finance teams to validate assumptions and align forecasts
Headcount reporting and timely accruals of costs
Assist in Preparation of quarterly forecasts and reviewing variance analysis (actual vs. forecast)
Preparation of MIS reports and statements 
Ensure the timely preparation and submission of reports.
Ensure that all Finance-related records and files are properly managed for easy retrieval.
------------
8
Governance

Leverage analytics framework of the company to create and improve reporting framework
Coordinates monthly reporting activities for Finance Shared Services & maintains associated scorecards
Create management reports to identify areas of policy compliance requiring executive attention


Shared Services Operations

Works as the business partner to the Finance operations as well as Finance leadership team.
Experience with business analysis, projections, and variance analysis.
Experience with SAP ERP, Business Object (SAP report writer), Oracle EPBCS, or Hyperion, GL wand and other data consolidation/ reporting tools.
Sale incentive calculation support, reporting and managing stakeholders.
Work on projects related to financial analysis and process improvement with stakeholders within shared services and Finance globally to deliver value


CPI (Continuous Process improvement) projects.

Pushes Productivity, Cost & Cash Focus initiatives down to the shared services & sites
Escalate country / site simplification ideas & improvement suggestions back to Finance
Identify opportunities for improvement within shared services by leveraging data analytics tools such as SAP BO and Power BI
Any other areas as may be identified by management to be included in the role 
------------
9
Performing analysis of business performance versus Plan and forecast. Performing month end closing activities and MIS reports for the respective business / functions.
 Working with the other financial professionals in Divisions / Hubs / Countries / functions to understand and analyze the drivers of financial performance. Analysis of overhead under / over absorption indicating root cause.
 Performing cost / benefit analysis and analysis of inventories, NWC. Preparing ad-hoc reports as per business / function’s request.
 Supporting preparation of relevant organization financial reporting, business planning & forecasting. Supporting audits.
 Validating accuracy of financial data and business information and reports by performing reconciliation and review of exceptions.
 Optimize own performance to increase productivity by developing automated solutions, eliminating duplications, coordinating information requirements. Identify areas for process / report standardization across different countries,
---------------
10
Analyzing financial data.
Researching macroeconomic and microeconomic conditions.
Preparing accounting and other required reports and projections based on the analysis performed.
Evaluating capital expenditures and asset depreciation.
Establishing and evaluating records, statements, and profit plans.
Identifying financial performance trends and financial risk, and making recommendations.
Providing recommendations for improvement based on trends.
Coordinating with other members of the finance team, such as a risk analyst when required to review financial information and forecasts.
Providing financial models.
Making financial forecasts.
Analyzing inventory.


Requirements:

Bachelor's degree in business, accounting, finance, economics, or related field.
Proven experience in the financial industry.
Proficiency with spreadsheets, databases, and financial software applications.
Outstanding presentation, reporting, and communication skills.
Proven knowledge of financial forecasting and diagnosis, corporate finance, and information analysis.
Proficient in Word, Excel, Outlook, and PowerPoint.
Comfortable using a computer for various tasks.
Proven leadership abilities.
Deep understanding of the financial system and institutions.
------------
11
Collaborate with business leaders to develop annual budgets and complete monthly forecasts
 Review monthly financial and operational results, investigate variances to budget/forecast, and provide detailed commentary for business leaders
 Provides financial insights to department leaders around sales to revenue conversion, labor costs, and expenses.
 Works with department leaders to update monthly forecast (revenues, headcount, expenses).
 Collaborate with Billing & Revenue team to project revenues at department level from recurring and nonrecurring engagements.
 Work closely with the Accounting team during monthly close on operating expense review
 Perform ad-hoc analysis/special projects as necessary to support ACA on various client 
------------------
12
Formulate annual operating plan and forecast for various accounts in concurrence with business and finance leaders2. Demonstrate deep understanding of underlying business drivers and assist business/ finance leaders to attain strategic business vision3. Advise business leaders on attaining their business targets4. Ensure minimal variance to annual operating plan and forecast.5. Ensure all variances are thoroughly explained and justified6. Have periodic review of financials with business & finance leaders7. Ability to be a team player, troubleshooter and a consensus-builder8. Excellent verbal and written communications skills9. Ability to aggregate large volumes of data and construct useful analysis for Management insights11. Excellent presentation skills12. Demonstrated ability to be proactive and self-driven with the capacity to work in a dynamic work environment
------------
13
Forecasting, Planning, and Reporting – Assist the onshore services team in monthly / quarterly forecast and annual planning processes.
 Ensure accurate and timely completion of reporting deliverables in advance of Quarterly Business Reviews, MBRs, etc.
 Responsible for discussing plan and forecast numbers, and then load in the system after consulting with the business leaders.
 Responsible for reporting Actuals, comparing them with plan/latest forecast and providing commentary for major variances.
 Should be able to give heads up to the leaders with respect to any unforeseen expenses,

Risks & Opportunities.

 Should have keen eye to details especially in situations where cost reduction is necessary and make recommendations to the leadership.
 Work directly with global business partners and help them with the daily finance adhocs
 Creation of new Power BI reports whenever there is a business team request for new report/ info.
 Regular interaction with various business partners who are operating from different locations across globe.
 High data accuracy & keenness on number matching is a must.
 Excellent oral / written communication and interpersonal skills that enable clear and concise communication to all levels of the organization.
 Adept in MS Office, with a strong emphasis on Excel and PowerPoint.
 Experience with Anaplan and / Power Bi is a plus
--------------
14
Skills

 Financial Analysis
 Financial reporting
 Finanace
 MIS
 Accounting

Responsibilities

 Gather financial and operational data from various sources, including databases, spreadsheets, and financial reports.
 Utilize data analysis tools and software to process and interpret large datasets.
 Identify trends, patterns, and anomalies in financial and operational data.
 Conduct financial analysis, including budgeting, forecasting, variance analysis, and cost analysis.
 Create financial models to support decision-making related to investments, pricing strategies, and cost optimization.
 Provide insights into financial performance, profitability, and efficiency improvements.
 Manage and maintain information systems, databases, and reporting tools used for financial analysis and reporting.
 Develop dashboards and reports that present financial and operational data to stakeholders in a clear and meaningful way.
 Ensure data accuracy, integrity, and security within information systems.
 Prepare and present financial reports, findings, and recommendations to management and relevant stakeholders.
 Translate complex financial data into understandable insights for non-financial audiences.
 Assist in the preparation of regulatory and compliance reports.
 Collaborate with cross-functional teams to provide data-driven insights that support strategic planning and decision-making.
 Assist in identifying areas for operational improvement and cost-saving initiatives.
 Analyze market trends and competitive landscapes to provide insights for business strategies.
 Identify opportunities to streamline data collection, reporting processes, and data quality.
 Implement best practices for data management and analysis.
 Contribute to the enhancement of information systems and tools.
-----------
15
Support direct manager with the operational conversion of the BPA strategic goals within a dedicated area of the business -Works with direct managers to support financial activities, decision making and general projects.
Provide analysis or reporting with particular emphasis on accuracy, compliance and timeliness of data provided.
Ensure ongoing business performance is appropriately monitored and measured, and drive early warning for re-direction of resources with Business Partners.
Ensure integrity of data provided by commercial teams, and provide value added; provides recommendations on forecast accuracy improvement.
Support the improvement and streamlining of existing management reporting processes and the definition and implementation of lean processes.
Coordinate Business Partnering with other areas of the business (FRA, Marketing, Sales, Supply Chain and other functions) to support on time and accurate information gathering.
Supports and improves business case proposals and profitability tracking and the annual budgeting, rolling forecast/Latest outlook and Strategic Planning processes.
Reporting of technical complaints / adverse events / special case scenarios related to Novartis products within 24 hours of receipt -Distribution of marketing samples (where applicable)
------------------
16
Performs data extraction as well as diagnosis of financial drivers, and leverages analytics to make recommendations to key stakeholders.
 Conducts comprehensive financial analysis for specific functions or business units, addressing financial business issues and providing valuable analytics to support key business initiatives.
 Provides inputs for monthly review of expenses and capital for budgeting and forecasting process and analyzes variances with operational analytics and insight.
 Interprets financial reports, including forecasts, budgets, income statements, balance sheets and cash flow documents.
 Acquires a comprehensive understanding of the organization's financial processes and gains proficient knowledge of the company's operations and business.
 Supports business by closing the books, analyzing variances and trends, and developing financial forecasts that are consistent with the business objectives of the organization.
 Ensures compliance with reporting standards and corporate policies and the integrity of external and internal reporting.
 Applies foundational principles and contributes proactively to projects through research and data analysis support, providing regular updates on accomplishments and impediments.
 Supports priority projects with direction, maintaining relationships with internal stakeholders and sharing information via standardized reports.
-------------
17
Lead the complete ambit of outsourced operations for F&A to ensure high levels of customer satisfaction for both functional and CXO stakeholders
Groom and enable career progression while encouraging Genpact culture (CI2). Achieve /exceed retention targets and driving continuous upskilling within teams.
Collaborate and work globally with other Genpact business leaders and functional leaders to build and commercialize existing and new product offerings
Demonstrate lean six sigma framework to drive continuous performance improvement and drive transformation agenda
Must be able to work with cross functional teams like Operations, HR, Service Line, Digital, Transformation, Transitions, etc.
Pro-active, ability to trouble shoot, work through organizational change scenarios.
Implement appropriate mechanisms to identify, understand and bring up performance gaps and/or performance breakthroughs. Develop and implement improvement plans to close performance gaps.
Collaborate in the new deal process including solutioning, pricing, due diligence, transition, and stabilization
Experience to manage end-to-end client service delivery and P&L
Intellectual agility and analytical outlook
--------------
18
Analyze cost and performance characteristics of every Azure resource group.
Develop summary spreadsheets that list potential areas for cost improvement.
Monitor and analyze cloud infrastructure costs across various platforms (e.g., AWS, Azure, Google Cloud).
Develop and maintain financial models to forecast cloud spending and identify cost-saving opportunities.
Collaborate with the IT and Infrastructure teams to understand cloud usage patterns and provide recommendations for cost optimization.
Prepare and present detailed financial reports and dashboards to senior management.
Track and report on cloud cost trends, variances, and key performance indicators (KPIs).
Assist in the development and implementation of cloud cost management policies and best practices.
Stay up-to-date with industry trends and emerging technologies to ensure the company is leveraging the most cost-effective cloud solutions.
Support the budgeting and forecasting process for cloud infrastructure expenses.
--------------
19
Azure Cost Management + Billing
Apptio Cloudability
Cloud Financial Planning & Analysis
Budgeting & Forecasting
Cost Optimization Techniques
Cloud Governance & Policy Implementation
Tagging Strategy & Resource Group Management
KPI Tracking & Reporting
Secondary Skills:

Stakeholder Communication
Risk Assessment & Mitigation
Internal Controls & Compliance
Financial Reporting & Insights
Alerting & Monitoring Tools (e.g., Azure Monitor, Log Analytics)
Experience:

Proven track record of implementing cost-saving initiatives in cloud environments
Experience managing multi-subscription Azure environments
-------------------
20
Manage user trainings for cloud cost management tool (CCM) and report inconsistencies to engineering team/provider for remediation.
Look after increased adoption of cloud cost management tool by end users and set-up regular Q&A, workshops with the provider.
Continuously build knowledge and skills to keep up to date with developments in content and tools.
Collect business requirements from customers, shaping them into technical specifications, present them to the provider and development team, communicate on the release of the new features and constantly collect and share feedback.
Use cost management tools to clearly communicate complex analysis of cloud data in simple understandable terms for all levels of the organisation.
Demonstrable eagerness to learn the latest industry trends and can translate how these services or technologies can improve cost / performance for our business stakeholders.
Use reports to highlight tagging data quality to drive improvements with cost allocation and management reports.
Look after renewing reserved instances/savings plans and extend current scope where possible.
--------------
21
Business insight - Applying knowledge of business and the marketplace to advance the organization’s goals.
Communicates effectively - Developing and delivering multi-mode communications that convey a clear understanding of the unique needs of different audiences.
Global perspective - Taking a broad view when approaching issues, using a global lens.
Manages conflict - Handling conflict situations effectively, with a minimum of noise.
Agile Architecture - Designs the fundamental organization of a system embodied by its components, their relationships to each other and to the environment to guide its emergent design and evolution.
Agile Systems Thinking - Embraces a holistic approach to analysis that focuses on the way that a system's constituent parts interrelate and how systems work over time and within the context of larger systems to ensure the economic success of the solution.
Business Architecture Design - Defines and creates business capability maps using standards, templates, tools and methodologies to provide a common understanding of key capabilities aligned to strategic objectives and tactical demands.
Continuous Delivery Pipeline - Implements the workflows, activities, and automation by providing the enterprise with the capability to shepherd a new piece of functionality all the way from ideation to an on-demand release of value to the end user.
Lean Agile and SAFe Mindset - Advocates for and leads others in the concepts of the Agile Manifesto and Lean thinking in support of adopting and applying the 9 SAFe principles and practices for the organization.
Regulatory Risk Compliance Management - Evaluates the design and effectiveness of controls against established industry frameworks and regulations to assess adherence with legal/regulatory requirements.
Release Planning - Plans and manages the release of capabilities, features or products using inputs from the prioritized roadmap, planning, available resources and skills to communicate expected availability and releases of capability.
System Solution Architecture - Creates solution designs and patterns using the Cummins Technical Reference Model (CTRM), CLEAN standards, and existing reference patterns to maintain alignment to Cummins standards.
Values differences - Recognizing the value that different perspectives and cultures bring to an organization.
--------------------
22
Cloud Cost Management
Monitor and analyze cloud usage and spending across AWS, Azure, and GCP.
Identify cost-saving opportunities and implement optimization strategies.
Financial Analysis & Reporting
Develop financial models for forecasting and budgeting cloud expenses.
Prepare and present cost reports and dashboards for stakeholders.
Governance & Compliance
Ensure adherence to company policies, industry standards, and regulatory requirements.
Maintain accurate tagging and allocation for cost transparency.
Collaboration
Work with engineering teams to design cost-efficient architectures.
Partner with finance and procurement for contract negotiations and reserved instance planning.
Tooling & Automation
Manage cloud cost management tools (e.g., CloudHealth, Apptio, Spot.io).
Automate reporting and anomaly detection for cloud spend.
Training & Evangelism
Educate teams on FinOps principles and best practices.
Promote a culture of financial accountability in cloud usage.
--------------
23
Strong hands-on experience with AWS cost management tools (e.g., Cost Explorer, AWS Budgets, CUR, Compute Optimizer).
Proficiency in scripting languages (Python, Bash, Perl) and SQL for data analysis and automation.
Advanced Excel skills for financial modeling and data manipulation.
Intermediate PowerPoint skills for operational and financial presentations.
Familiarity with cloud infrastructure components and performance metrics in production environments.
Experience with development and automation in cloud-native environments.
Bonus: Experience with hybrid cloud setups and AI-led Cloud FinOps.
----------
24
Develop and implement strategies to optimize the cost of AI/ML workloads across cloud and on-premise environments. 
Analyze and forecast AI/ML resource consumption, creating actionable insights to drive financial efficiency. 
Establish KPIs and benchmarks for AI/ML operational costs, ensuring alignment with budgetary goals. 
Collaborate with cloud vendors to negotiate contracts and optimize pricing models for AI/ML services. 
Identify opportunities for cost reduction through model performance improvements, workload optimizations, and better infrastructure management. 
------------
25
This multifaceted position is divided into three primary domains: AWS FinOps, PMO & Project Coordination, and Reporting & Presentation Development.


AWS FinOps Responsibilities :

Monitor and Analyze AWS Usage: The Specialist relentlessly tracks AWS usage and cost trends globally, acting as the analytical watchdog for all cloud expenditures across Our Client’s international business units. Utilizing a suite of tools, they decipher patterns and anomalies, providing actionable insights that drive cost optimization in every region.
Cost Allocation Strategies: Effective tagging, resource-level tracking, and the strategic use of AWS accounts are at the heart of the cost allocation process. By applying these methods throughout Our Client’s global AWS environment, the Specialist ensures granular visibility into cloud spend, enabling precise budgeting and accountability across departments and geographies.
Cross-Functional and Cross-Geography Collaboration: The role requires close partnership with engineering, finance, and procurement teams not only in Pune but also in the UK, New Zealand, Australia, Singapore, and other offices. The Specialist coordinates budget forecasts, monitors actual expenditures, and addresses variances in real time—serving as the connective tissue uniting technical, financial, and operational priorities worldwide.
Dashboard and Report Creation: The Specialist is responsible for building and maintaining cost dashboards and periodic reports, such as AWS Cost and Usage Dashboards (CUDOs), Savings Plans utilization, and Reserved Instances (RI) tracking, offering both high-level views and deep dives into cloud financial health for global leadership.
Continuous Cost Optimization: By staying on the frontier of AWS innovations and cost-saving mechanisms, the Specialist actively recommends and implements measures for right-sizing, reserved and spot instance utilization, and eliminating waste—ensuring Our Client extracts maximum value from its global cloud investments.


PMO & Project Coordination:

Project Planning and Tracking: Supporting the planning, execution, and tracking of IT and business projects, the Specialist brings structure to complexity. This includes setting milestones, monitoring progress, and adjusting timelines to keep projects on course, regardless of the team’s location.
Status Review Meetings and Action Tracking: The Specialist organizes and coordinates project status reviews, tracks key actions, and escalates risks or issues as necessary, engaging with stakeholders across multiple time zones and regions to ensure alignment and progress.
Documentation and Stakeholder Communication: Project documentation is meticulously maintained and updated, ensuring all stakeholders are informed about objectives, changes, and outcomes—bridging communication across continents.
Support for Governance Processes: The Specialist is instrumental in managing RAID (Risks, Assumptions, Issues, Dependencies) logs, preparing updates for steering committees, and overseeing change requests—contributing to rigorous project governance and risk mitigation for Our Client’s global initiatives.


Reporting & Presentation Development:

Executive Presentations: The Specialist crafts concise, visually compelling presentations and dashboards tailored for executive audiences around the world. These materials distill complex financial and project data into clear, actionable insights that inform decision-making at the highest level.
Data Visualization: Transforming intricate datasets into meaningful visuals is a core skill. The Specialist ensures that senior leadership across all Our Client locations receives information in an easily digestible format, facilitating strategic discussions and timely interventions.
Collaborative Content Gathering: Working with cross-functional teams around the globe, the Specialist collects and synthesizes content for regular reviews, guaranteeing that all perspectives are represented and that reporting remains holistic and relevant.
-------------
26
Follows a variety of generally defined procedures under general guidance from financial optimization disciplines
Prepares forecasts and analyzes trends in Infrastructure costs - hardware, software, leasing, managed services, professional services costs, etc
Evaluates the accuracy of forecasts and financial records, documenting any adjustments using a change management process
Provides financial information, analysis, and advice for use in planning, budget management and decision-making
Tracking and reporting on Global Cloud Usage and impact of Optimization activities
Calculates, analyzes and explains variances between budget, forecast and actuals and communicates these to line management
Ensures financial data integrity and accuracy
Handles non-routine and difficult inquiries. Adapts differing techniques and methods to develop solutions for a variety of complex issues. Applies analytical skills for analysis and interpretation of trends or data generated by company reporting systems, statistical results, or other information collection system-
----------------
27
Building and optimising scalable processes to continue Revolut's hyper-growth
Leading and executing core infrastructure projects end to end
Exploring and defining which projects the team should prioritise, and setting a timeline to reach goals quickly
Searching for new features to provide a seamless customer experience
Managing critical vendor relationships and building performance tracking systems
Developing strategic supply chain partnerships and negotiating commercial terms
-------------
28
Own finance operations: Oversee finance essentials including bookkeeping, payroll, month-end reporting and AP/AR ensuring accuracy and compliance using Xero and other software.
Context switching: Balance work across different startups, projects, and changing priorities with accuracy, ensuring partner expectations are managed. You will update partners daily on progress so your work output needs to be high.
Optimize as you go: Identify and drive improvements in finance processes/controls and support with new tech implementations.
Build strong connections: Collaborate closely with RORA's FinOps teams across the UK and India, plus your partners, to innovate and solve challenges collaboratively.
--------
29
Collaborate with R&D leaders to develop and manage project-level budgeting and resource allocation.
Enhance forecasting accuracy by improving tracking systems for project investments and cash outflows.
Conduct monthly financial analysis of operational expenses (Opex), headcount, and capital expenditures (Capex) to identify trends and variances.
Facilitate headcount management and reporting, including approval processes and allocation changes across global teams.
Provide actionable insights by preparing and presenting financial overviews to key stakeholders, highlighting risks and opportunities.
Act as a strategic partner to departmental leaders in developing annual planning and ongoing forecasting processes.
Drive process improvements and automation enhancements in financial tracking to support the rapidly growing R&D organization.
Set first-year objectives to streamline financial processes and establish key performance indicators (KPIs) for continuous improvement.
-------
30
Develop Build and Prepare annual Budgets for Business Units. Make recommendations to business unit management for optimizing financial performance and attaining financial targets.
Develop, prepare and Maintain monthly financial forecasts and budget reconciliations for the business unit.
Analyze business unit Monthly / Quarterly financial results and key Performance indicators. Prepare monthly Business unit reporting packages with insightful commentary and analysis.
Manage Budget and associated headcount. Ensure financial is reporting in accordance with organizational changes.
Prepare ad-hoc financial and business case analyses.
----------------
